<document>
WHEN a search engine guesses what you want before you finish typing it, or helpfully ignores your bad spelling, that is the result of machine learning, a branch of artificial intelligence. Although AI has been through cycles of hype and disappointment before, big technology companies have recently been scrambling to hire experts in the field, in the hope of building machines that can learn even more sophisticated tasks.

IBM said this month it would invest $1 billion in a new division to develop uses for Watson, its computer that understands human language. But this week Google cemented its lead in this field by paying around £400m ($660m) for DeepMind Technologies, a startup in London that has yet to announce a product.

In this section
Less amazing than Amazon
Too big to fail, but in a good way
Fixing a flat
Health and appiness
Don’t be evil, genius
We want to be your friend
Reprints
Related topics
Technology
Google
Science and technology
Computer technology
Artificial intelligence
The boss of DeepMind, Demis Hassabis, previously created video games such as “Evil Genius” and “Theme Park”, in which the events and characters can respond credibly in an enormous variety of potential situations because of an artificial-intelligence algorithm humming in the background.

DeepMind’s 75 geeks will join the world’s leading group of machine-learning experts, which Google has been assembling in the past few years. Google’s main source of income, its search engine and the accompanying ad-placement system, is driven by machine learning. The firm’s self-driving cars rely on it, as do the intelligent thermostats made by Nest, a firm it has just taken over, and the robots made by Boston Dynamics and other robotics outfits it has been buying.

The technology is already the backbone of many other internet firms. It is why Facebook and LinkedIn have that slightly creepy ability to find people you know, and why Amazon and Netflix are good at suggesting books and films you might like. It also helps intelligence agencies to identify terrorist networks.

As machine learning leaves the lab and goes into practice, it will threaten white-collar, knowledge-worker jobs just as machines, automation and assembly lines destroyed factory jobs in the 19th and 20th centuries. For example, the technique has been applied by researchers at Stanford University to tell whether a biopsy of breast cells is highly cancerous, something that until now has required a human expert to assess.

Another of DeepMind’s founders, Shane Legg, has predicted that artificial intelligence running amok will be the biggest existential risk to humans in this century. Its founders have asked Google to set up an “ethics board” to consider the appropriate use of machine learning in its products. The creator of “Evil Genius” is ensuring that his new overlord sticks to its motto, “Don’t be evil”.
</document>
<document>
He also warned about the implications for uncontrolled mass surveillance if computers were taught to recognise human faces.
Speaking on Radio 4’s Today programme, he said: “There’s a variety of short term risks for artificial intelligence, everyone knows about the autonomous drones.
“But there’s also the potential for mass surveillance, you don’t just have to recognise cat images, you could also recognise human faces and also mass unemployment in a variety of professions.”
He added: “We have some studies looking into which jobs are the most vulnerable and there’s quite a lot of them in logistics, administration, insurance underwriting but ultimately a huge swathe of jobs are potentially vulnerable to improved artificial intelligence.”
His concerns were backed up by Murray Shanahan, professor of cognitive robotics at Imperial College London, who said: “I think it is a very good thing that Google has set up this ethics board and I think there certainly are some short term issues that we all need to be talking about.
“It’s very difficult to predict and that is of course a concern but in the past when we’ve developed new kinds of technologies then often they have created jobs at the same time as taking them over but it certainly is something we ought to be discussing.”
DeepMind was founded two years ago by 37-year-old neuroscientist and former teenage chess prodigy Demis Hassabis, along with Shane Legg and Mustafa Suleyman.
The company specialises in algorithms and machine learning for simulation, e-commerce and games.
It is also working in an area called Deep Learning in which machines are taught to see patterns from large quantities of data so computers could start to recognise objects from daily life such as cars or food products and even human faces.
It is believed Google will use DeepMind’s expertise to improve the functions of its current products such as the Google Glass and extend its current artificial intelligence work such as the development of self-driving cars.
Mr Shanahan said: “We all know that Google have got an interest in wearable computing with their Google glass and you can imagine them and other companies using this technology to build some kind of assistant that for example could help you to make a lasagne in your kitchen and to tell you what ingredients you needed and where to find them.
“Not necessarily a robot assistant but something wearable such as your Google glass or some other maker might make a similar thing so you can carry it around with you.”
</document>
<document>
We know you will find a great deal of information here that will help you whether you are deciding to join us for years of training or an evening at the theater.
It was very important for you to find a faculty, student body, environment, and philosophy that "fit" with your talents and dreams as you decide which college to attend. Much of what has attracted us to this program is likely to attract you:

University of Miami Theatre is strictly an undergraduate training program.

Our students study directly with Professors, not graduate assistants. Our Professors remain active in the profession working in the country's leading regional theaters, in New York, and in film and television. Our students do not take a back seat to graduate students in casting, design assignments, directing opportunities, or in research opportunities.
Our student to teacher ratio is very low.

We offer the kind of personal attention one associates with traditional theatrical mentorship. We know that the keystone to a superior education is an excellent student/mentor relationship.
First-rate productions are a part of our over-all curriculum.

All of our programs contribute to fully produced seasons at our Jerry Herman Ring Theatre, one of Southern Florida's most respected cultural centers. Additional projects are mounted in our fully equipped studio theater.
This undergraduate degree in theater serves the student as a broad base for any career choice and for advanced graduate study.
We have a long and impressive record of alumni success.

View our Alumni Biography page to learn more about our graduates. This is an important and supportive professional community.
The University of Miami is in one of the nation's most beautiful cities, Coral Gables.

This lush tropical setting supports an equally lush professional arts community and a vibrant multi-cultural population. In recent years, the world entertainment industry has shifted focus from traditional professional centers to Southern Florida. Noted in Premiere magazine as one of the nation's new film centers, the greater Miami area offers students real world experience with the best of the entertainment industry.
We have an impressive roster of visiting artists and professionals.
We have equal commitment to our Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Fine Arts students.

A Bachelor of Arts Theater major receives experience in all the elements of the theater: acting, directing, technical design and production, dramatic structures, and the role of the audience as critic and consumer. These areas are enriched with study of dramatic literature, history, and a sense of the great movements in human thought and action. Additionally, the BA student experiences the breadth of the traditional Liberal Arts study.

Singer - Song Writer John Mayer with students during a Master Class at the Jerry Herman Ring Theatre
This undergraduate degree in theater serves the student as a broad base for any career choice and for advanced graduate study.
A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Theater offers more depth in the selected area of study and, perhaps, not quite as much breadth. This degree embraces its intention, which is professional preparation. While it is difficult to teach the artistic impulse or talent, it is important to provide students with the means to access their native talent through craft. A graduate of our BFA programs should expect to have been offered the skills that will make her/him competitive in the profession as it exists today.
In the end, your best college experience will depend on the "fit" of mentorship, environment, opportunity and your unique talents and dreams. Now that you have visited us on the web, we hope you will visit us in person and see first hand why so many prominent actors, directors and designers have found their best fit at the University of Miami. We look forward to meeting you!
</document>
<document>
Don’t miss the beginning of a new era for Porsche Motorsports and for sports car racing. For the first time in its history, North America will have a dedicated Porsche factory team, Porsche North America. The Rolex 24 at Daytona will be the inaugural green flag for the factory team and for the TUDOR United SportsCar Championship.
</document>
<document>
When Java 8 ships on March 18, it will come equipped with a new JavaScript engine codenamed Nashorn. Created by Oracle, Nashorn enables Java developers to embed JavaScript in their applications and develop standalone JavaScript apps, all in the Java Virtual Machine.

JavaScript development on the JVM isn’t a new concept. Dating back to 1997, Netscape and then Mozilla developed and maintained the original JVM-based JavaScript engine, known as Rhino. Using the jrunscript command-line tool, Nashorn (pronounced “nas-horn,” the German word for rhinoceros) leverages new native APIs such as MethodHandles and InvokeDynamic to implement a lightweight, high-performance JavaScript runtime in Java.

At a presentation entitled “Java and JavaScript—Shaken, Not Stirred,” hosted by the New York Java Special Interest Group, Farata Systems senior software engineer Viktor Gamov explained how Nashorn aims to bridge the gap between Java and JavaScript.

“Nashorn is based off two worlds,” he said. “We can take the features we love in Java and use libraries from the JavaScript community.”

Gamov explained that for Java developers, JavaScript is like an iceberg. On top is a deceptively familiar syntax, but a completely unknown language awaits underneath. For Java developers who prefer to work in an environment in which they’re comfortable, Nashorn provides extension points for an application—the bridge between the two—to use JavaScript within the JVM for Web content generation.

(Related: JavaScript tops RedMonk's rankings)

Nashorn is the pure JavaScript implementation in the JVM, 100% written in Java and fully compatible with ECMAScript 5.1, the most recent standardized version of JavaScript.

“Compared to Rhino, Nashorn actually compiles JavaScript into byte code,” Gamov said. “You can add a new query with no compilation, and easily modify it or introduce new logic without recompilation.”

Oracle’s new JavaScript engine also borrows several features from Google Chrome’s V8 engine, using the same UI as the Chrome debugger and the same testing suite as V8. Gamov also pointed out that while Java templating is done on the server-side, today’s browser performance can execute JavaScript fast enough to do templating on the client-side. 

“I think there’s some perception out that Java is not as good anymore, but Java 8 will again make Java awesome,” Gamov said. “I can’t tell you to code Java or [a competing platform like] Node.js. But if I’m a developer who wants to stay in my comfort zone with a little bit of spice, which is the JavaScript here, Nashorn provides that.”
</document>
<document>
This article has barely any content. errrrrrrrrrr
</document>
<document>
The anxiety of Internet news is that there's always one more headline to click. No one human could begin to sort through all those pages without going a little mad. So how do you become an informed citizen without making it your full-time job?

For all the limitations of their 400-year-old technology, newspapers prioritize information with headlines and photos to help you become well-versed about the world, usually in one sitting. Once upon a time, newspapers were the only way to do that.


News you can use? The Flipboard app, left, and Facebook's new Paper app, right. Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal

Lately, some of the smartest and most well-funded minds in Silicon Valley have been trying to create the smartphone equivalent of a newspaper. On Monday, Facebook FB -0.29%  launched a new app, named Paper, for consuming stories, photos and video. Last week, Flipboard unveiled an upgrade to its digital magazine that organizes Web content even more like the sections in a print publication.

Curling up in a chair with a cup of coffee, I've been trying each in half-hour bursts, to see which could best bring me up to speed. I found Paper offered a broad view on what's popular, but not an authoritative take on my world, ranging from international events to local news.

Flipboard was a more satisfying read because it presents clear headlines and photos in a design cue borrowed from newspapers, while giving me control over the sources and topics of information I care most about.

These two aren't the only recent efforts to take on our news glut. Others have focused on offering quicker doses: In January, Yahoo YHOO +2.14%  launched News Digest, an app that presents summaries of a handful of the most important stories, while a new app from a startup called Inside presents up to 1,000 stories each day, in tight 300-character briefs.

What makes these apps different than any lone newspaper's digital service is that they present stories from a range of sources. To determine which ones to share, each app relies on its own combination of four factors: computer algorithms that gauge popularity; human editors; posts and interaction from your friends on social networks; and your own preferences.

The Paper app starts with your friends. After setup, the first screen you see consists of posts and links shared by friends—the same that you see on the Facebook news feed. There's a stream of content, cards for each shared item on the bottom half of the screen and a rolling series of photogenic previews up top.

One of Paper's biggest improvements on the existing Facebook app is the clean and intuitive new way you browse through those story cards, pushing your finger up to see more and flicking down to make it go away. There's also a new way to create posts that Facebook hopes will inspire new kinds of original content.

More Reviews
The Business Card Cannot Be Killed
G Flex: Calling on a Curve
My Tie Clip Is Watching You
Got a Tech Conundrum? #AskWSJD
And there are sweet design flourishes throughout: Tilt your phone to see the outer edges of a horizontal photo; click "Like" on a post and hear a sound like a jack-in-the-box popping.

But in a surprising departure, the rest of the Paper app mostly ignores your friends. A team of editors, aided by Internet analytics, chooses stories to present across aptly named channels. "Headlines" for top stories, "Flavor" for food and "Exposure" for photojournalism. It's an about-face from the kind of all-about-me online sensibility that social networks have helped to create. At least for now, every Paper user sees the same stories.

The awkward reality is that Facebook's computer-assisted editors are probably better than your friends at selecting stories. Among Paper's curated channels, I spotted important stories about Nelson Mandela's estate and a shooting in Moscow, along with about 15 other stories I wanted to read. But many of those were more amusing than important, and during my test, the app missed some key stories of the day, including news on chemical weapons in Libya.

I would like to see more personalization, too, even if it's of the programmed sort. There's no way to choose a feed of information on a topic I created, or from a set of sources that I trust (many of whom I follow on my regular Facebook feed). There's no local news, either.

 

Introducing WSJD, the Journal's new home for tech news, analysis and product reviews.

Inside the Microsoft CEO Search
Attempting to Code the Human Brain
News App Showdown
The Business Card Cannot Be Killed
Facebook product manager Michael Reckhow says Paper's goal isn't to be a news reader that stacks up headlines. The app highlights the creator (or at least, purveyor) of each post first, while headlines are optional. Facebook wants to help people discover a wide range of content—and the people behind the stories, says Mr. Reckhow. But without consistent headlines, I had a harder time getting a high-level glimpse of what's interesting and important.

Flipboard uses a different combination of controls, algorithms and social network feeds to present stories it says will be relevant to me.

Like Paper, it pulls photos from source links to present a highly visual reading experience, with channels arranged by topics like "News" and "Technology." But Flipboard goes further, allowing you to create your own channels on topics, or from news sources, your Facebook friends or Twitter TWTR -23.27%  lists. The result is highly personal—and highly malleable.

Flipboard manages to turn a cacophony of news into a symphony that's only occasionally out of tune. Human editors choose the topics and stories they think are important (no Miley Cyrus in news, they promise), but then the app serves up headlines and photos tempered by what your friends are sharing on social networks, and the sources of news you've previously favored. I found about 20 stories of interest in a half-hour.

Flipboard's latest version features on its home page a new version of what it calls "Cover Stories"—a mini-magazine that includes seven stories in each of the categories you choose.

Combining these multiple points of view—and points of entry—gave me more of the news that was actually worth reading. I still didn't spot the Libyan weapons story, but it did point me to an excellent story about Janet Yellen that I didn't find in Facebook's Paper.

Flipboard could still do a better job. It isn't always clear to the reader why a particular story was surfaced, and while I preferred its devotion to the tried-and-true headline, it too often felt like a collection of them. Flipboard could benefit from the tinier type that Facebook uses on Paper, too. More information is packed in, but it's all still readable on today's high-resolution screens.

I preferred Flipboard, but Paper offers a better way than ever to consume and contribute to Facebook, while taking in a much broader picture of the world. Though this kind of lean-back news experience presents an alternative to gobbling a never-ending supply of news nuggets, both apps face the challenge of convincing us to make time for it.
</document>
<document>
Learning new skills is one of the best ways to make yourself both marketable and happy, but actually doing so isn't as easy as it sounds. The science behind how we learn is the foundation for teaching yourself new skills. Here's what we know about learning a new skill.P

Our brains are still a bit of a mystery. We'll likely be learning about how our brain works for years to come, but we are starting to get a better idea of how we learn new things. To that end, let's start by talking about what happens in your brain as you take on a new skillset before moving onto some of the scientifically effective ways to learn.P

How Your Brain Changes As You Learn a New SkillP

The Science Behind How We Learn New Skills
Every time you learn something new, your brain changes in a pretty substantial way. In turn, this makes other parts of your life easier because the benefits of learning stretch further than just being good at something. As The New Yorker points out, learning a new skill has all kinds of unexpected benefits, including improving working memory, better verbal intelligence, and increased language skills.P

Likewise, as you learn a new skill, the skill actually gets easier to do. Cornell University explains what's going on:P

Specifically, training resulted in decreased activity in brain regions involved in effortful control and attention that closely overlap with the frontoparietal control and dorsal attention networks. Increased activity was found after training, however, in the default network that is involved in self-reflective activities, including future planning or even day dreaming. Thus, skill mastery is associated with increased activity in areas not engaged in skill performance, and this shift can be detected in the large-scale networks of the brain.P
Essentially, the more adept you become at a skill, the less work your brain has to do. Over time, a skill becomes automatic and you don't need to think about what you're doing. This is because your brain is actually strengthening itself over time as you learn that skill. Scientific American breaks it all down like so:P

Many different events can increase a synapse’s strength when we learn new skills. The process that we understand best is called long-term potentiation, in which repeatedly stimulating two neurons at the same time fortifies the link between them. After a strong connection is established between these neurons, stimulating the first neuron will more likely excite the second.

In addition to making existing synapses more robust, learning causes the brain to grow larger. Optical imaging allows researchers to visualize this growth in animals. For instance, when a rat learns a difficult skill, such as reaching through a hole for a pellet of food, within minutes new protrusions, called dendritic spines, grow on the synapses in its motor cortex, the region that allows animals to plan and execute movements.P
The more connections between neurons are formed, the more we learn, and the more information we retain. As those connection get stronger, the less we have to think about what we're doing, which means we can get better at other facets of a set of skills.P

RELATED

The Science of Practice: What Happens When You Learn a New Skill
You've heard the expression “practice makes perfect” a million times, and you've probably read Malcolm Gladwell's popular “10,000… Read…
We're still learning about learning. So, while we can see how learning skills affects the brain, we're still digging into exactly why it happens and all the benefits of doing so. As the old saying goes, practice makes perfect, but how we practice is just as important as if we're practicing.P

How You Can Use This Science to Learn FasterP

Knowing how your brain adapts to new skills is just part of the process. That knowledge is worthless if you don't know how to apply it. With that in mind, let's dig into some of the tried and true methods of learning new skills as quickly as possible. It's all about boosting your brainpower in one way or another. Thankfully, it's surprisingly easy.P

Force Yourself to Learn Without Guides or HelpP

The Science Behind How We Learn New Skills
When we're learning a new skill it's easy to rely on YouTube, tutorials, walkthroughs, and guides to help get the process started. That's great for those beginning days, but if we keep doing that we won't ever actually learn because we're not solving problems on our own.P

RELATED

How (and Why) to Intentionally Set Yourself Up for Failure
The old mantra is that you're never supposed to set yourself up for failure. That's true in most cases, but it's not a black and white … Read…
In order to learn, we need to fail. Science writer Annie Murphy Paul calls this productive failure:P

We’ve heard a lot lately about the benefits of experiencing and overcoming failure. One way to get these benefits is to set things up so that you’re sure to fail—by tackling a difficult problem without any instruction or assistance. Manu Kapur, a researcher at the Learning Sciences Lab at the National Institute of Education of Singapore, has reported (in the Journal of the Learning Sciences) that people who try solving math problems in this way don’t come up with the right answer—but they do generate a lot of ideas about the nature of the problems and about what potential solutions would look like, leading them to perform better on such problems in the future. Kapur calls this “productive failure,” and you can implement it in your own learning by allowing yourself to struggle with a problem for a while before seeking help or information.P
Take the example of learning the guitar. You can easily hunt down the tablature for "Paint it Black" online, but that's not going to help you learn the actual sound of each chord you're playing. Instead, try to figure it out on your own instead of seeking out the answer. This is essentially learning by trial-and-error, which is frustrating, but works really well. The same goes any number of other skills. Sure, sometimes you need to break down and search for a solution, but you're going to be better off if you don't.P

Spread Out Learning Over TimeP

The Science Behind How We Learn New Skills
When we're picking up a new skill or learning something entirely new, it's easy to binge-learn and obsessively work on it over time. However, that's not always the best idea. In fact, spreading out learning, also known as distributed practice, is thought to be a better way to learn. A review of studies in Psychological Science in the Public Interest found that spreading out learning is far more effective than cramming:P

Dunlosky and colleagues report that spreading out your studying over time and quizzing yourself on material before the big test are highly effective learning strategies. Both techniques have been shown to boost students' performance across many different kinds of tests, and their effectiveness has been repeatedly demonstrated for students of all ages.

"I was shocked that some strategies that students use a lot — such as rereading and highlighting — seem to provide minimal benefits to their learning and performance. By just replacing rereading with delayed retrieval practice, students would benefit," says Dunlosky.P
RELATED

Dedicate 15 Minutes a Day to DIY Projects
DIY projects are time-consuming and more often than not, it's easier to just go out and buy whatever you need instead of trying to make it.… Read…
Distributed practice is an old technique, but it actually works really well for the busy lives most of us lead. Instead of sitting down for hours on end to learn a skill, distributed practice is all about shorter, smaller sessions where you're stimulating the link between the neurons more often throughout time. So, instead of trying to learn a skill by taking an hour long class every night, give yourself a lot of time overall, and small chunks throughout the day. Heck, even 15 minutes a day to spend on projects is enough for many of us.P

Choose Your Study Time WiselyP

The Science Behind How We Learn New Skills
RELATED

Master Your “Body Clock” to Eat, Sleep, and Work More Efficiently
Why are so many Olympic records broken in the afternoon? Does the body perform differently at this time of day than say, early morning? The team at… Read…
You wouldn't think it, but when you study or practice is just as important as how. As we've seen before, the body's internal clock is tuned to work better during certain points in the day, and that goes for learning as well. According to one study published in the journal PLOS One, we learn best when we do so before sleep.P

The study found that subjects who went to sleep right after learning something did significantly better in a series of memory tests. We've seen this before with naps, and know that sleep has a big impact on memory retention in general. Basically, when you learn a new skill before bed, you're helping fortify the link between the neurons in your brain. This means you retain information better.P

RELATED

Naps Can Seriously Improve All-Day Learning Abilities
Taking a 90-minute nap the day of a test or presentation sounds like a ludicrous luxury. But a recent study on the brain's ability to recall… Read…

Why Your Memory Sucks (and What You Can Do About It)
Human memory is quirky, complicated, and unreliable. Even when we think we're remembering everything accurately, chances are things have gotten… Read…
Apply Your Skills Every DayP

The Science Behind How We Learn New Skills
We're big proponents of experiential learning here at Lifehacker, and that's because it's often the best way to learn the types of skills we talk about here. The more you can apply what you're learning to your every day, the more it'll stick in your head.P

The reason is simple. When you're learning by doing, you're implementing everything that makes our memory work. When you're able to connect what you're learning with a real world task, that forms the bonds in your brain, and subsequently the skills you're learning will stick around. This is especially true with learning a foreign language, where application is the key to learning quickly.P

RELATED

I Learned to Speak Four Languages in a Few Years: Here's How
Lifehacker reader Gabriel Wyner was tasked with learning four languages in the past few years for his career as an opera singer, and in the process… Read…

Application Is the Key to Learning a New Language, Fast
No, it's not the Rosetta Stone. Like most skills, the key to really acquiring a foreign language is to actually apply it. Read…
RELATED

A Better Way to Practice
While it may be true that there are no shortcuts to anywhere worth going, there certainly are ways of needlessly prolonging the journey. We often… Read…
You can do this in a number of ways. For some skills, like music, deliberate practice is a way to be more mindful of what you're doing so you can actually improve. Deliberate practice is all about tracking what you're learning, focusing on short learning sessions, and practicing as smart, not hard.P

Just like memory, we learn best when we have context, and that applies to new skills as much as it does random facts in school. That's why something like the transfer of learning is helpful when your learning a new skill. This means you're applying your new skills in your day to day life in a context that matters. For example, if you're learning about mathematics, make sure you find a way to work that into your daily life, even if it's as simple as figuring out your gas mileage every day. It's simple, but it's about forming connections in your brain that actually matter to you.
</document>
<document>
Recently I interviewed a software developer with five years experience in developing Web applications. She’d been doing JavaScript for four and a half years, she rated her JavaScript skill as very good, and—as I found out soon after—she actually knew very little about JavaScript. I didn’t really blame her for that, though. JavaScript is funny that way. It’s the language a lot of people (including myself, until recently!) assume they’re good at, just because they know C/C++/C# or they have some prior programming experience.

In a way, that assumption is not entirely groundless. It is easy to do simple things with JavaScript. The barrier to entry is very low; the language is forgiving and doesn’t require you to know a lot of things before you can start coding in it. Even a non-programmer can probably pick it up and write some useful scripts for a homepage in a matter of hours.

Indeed, until recently, I’d always been able to get by with whatever little JavaScript I knew, armed only with the MSDN® DHTML reference and my C++/C# experience. It was only when I started working on real-world AJAX applications that I realized how inadequate my JavaScript actually was. The complexity and interactivity of this new generation of Web applications requires a totally different approach to writing JavaScript code. These are serious JavaScript applications! The way we’ve been writing our throwaway scripts simply doesn’t cut it anymore.

Object-oriented programming (OOP) is one popular approach that’s used in many JavaScript libraries to make a codebase more manageable and maintainable. JavaScript supports OOP, but it does so in a very different manner from the way popular Microsoft® .NET Framework compliant languages like C++, C#, or Visual Basic® do it, so developers who have been working extensively with those languages may find doing OOP in JavaScript strange and counter-intuitive at first. I wrote this article to discuss in depth how the JavaScript language really supports object-oriented programming and how you can use this support to do object-oriented development effectively in JavaScript. Let’s start by talking about (what else?) objects.

JavaScript Objects Are Dictionaries
In C++ or C#, when we’re talking about objects, we’re referring to instances of classes or structs. Objects have different properties and methods, depending on which templates (that is, classes) they are instantiated from. That’s not the case with JavaScript objects. In JavaScript, objects are just collections of name/value pairs—think of a JavaScript object as a dictionary with string keys. We can get and set the properties of an object using either the familiar "." (dot) operator, or the "[]" operator, which is typically used when dealing with a dictionary. The following snippet
</document>